docs/api/menubar.md, before:

# Menubar

An accessible menubar navigation in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `Menubar`.

```js
new Menubar({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `"show"` |
| options.closeClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `"hide"` |
| options.transitionClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `"transitioning"` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `Menubar`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
Menubar.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click](#method--handleclick), [hover (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

This will also set the menu's `role` to "menubar" in the DOM.

If the menu is a root menu the first menu item's `tabIndex` will be set to 0 in the DOM.

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error, this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
Menubar._MenuType; // Default: `Menubar`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
Menubar._MenuItemType; // Default: `MenubarItem`.
```

#### Type {#property--menuitemtype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
Menubar._MenuToggleType; // Default: `MenubarToggle`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutoggletype--type}

`Class`

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

### _handleClick <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handleclick}

Handles click events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
Menubar._handleClick();
```

This method will do the following:

- Adds all event listeners listed in [BaseMenu's _handleClick method](./base-menu#method--handleclick).
- Adds a `pointerup` listener to the `document` so if the user clicks outside of the menu it will close if it is open.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Menubar._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:

- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight",
    "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", "End", "Space", "Enter", "Escape",
    and "A" through "Z".
  - Completely closes the menu and moves focus out if the "Tab" key is pressed.

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Menubar._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [Navigation Menubar Example](https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-wai-aria-practices-1.2-20191218/examples/menubar/menubar-1/menubar-1.html#kbd_label):

#### Menubar

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to first item in the submenu. |
| _Right Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item in the menubar.</li><li>If focus is on the last item, moves focus to the first item.</li></ul> |
| _Left Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the previous item in the menubar.</li><li>If focus is on the first item, moves focus to the last item.</li></ul> |
| _Down Arrow_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to first item in the submenu. |
| _Up Arrow_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to last item in the submenu. |
| _Home_ | Moves focus to first item in the menubar. |
| _End_ | Moves focus to last item in the menubar. |
| _Character_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to next item in the menubar having a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>If none of the items have a name starting with the typed character, focus does not move.</li></ul> |

#### Submenu

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | <ul><li>Activates menu item, causing the link to be activated.</li><li>NOTE: the links go to dummy pages; use the browser go-back function to return to this menubar example page.</li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | <ul><li>Closes submenu.</li><li>Moves focus to parent menubar item.</li></ul> |
| _Right Arrow_ | <ul><li>If focus is on an item with a submenu, opens the submenu and places focus on the first item.</li><li>If focus is on an item that does not have a submenu:<ul><li>Closes submenu.</li><li>Moves focus to next item in the menubar.</li><li>Opens submenu of newly focused menubar item, keeping focus on that parent menubar item.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Left Arrow_ | <ul><li>Closes submenu and moves focus to parent menu item.</li><li>If parent menu item is in the menubar, also:<ul><li>moves focus to previous item in the menubar.</li><li>Opens submenu of newly focused menubar item, keeping focus on that parent menubar item.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Down Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item in the submenu.</li><li>If focus is on the last item, moves focus to the first item.</li></ul> |
| _Up Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to previous item in the submenu.</li><li>If focus is on the first item, moves focus to the last item.</li></ul> |
| Home | Moves focus to the first item in the submenu. |
| End | Moves focus to the last item in the submenu. |
| _Character_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item having a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>If none of the items have a name starting with the typed character, focus does not move.</li></ul> |

### focusNextChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextchild}

Focus the menu's next child.

```js
Menubar.focusNextChild();
```

If the currently focussed child in the menu is the last child then this will focus the first child in the menu.

### focusPreviousChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuspreviouschild}

Focus the menu's previous child.

```js
Menubar.focusPreviousChild();
```

If the currently focussed child in the menu is the first child then this will focus the last child in the menu.

### focusNextChildWithCharacter <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextchildwithcharacter}

Focus the menu's next child starting with a specific letter.

```js
Menubar.focusNextChildWithCharacter(char);
```

#### Parameters {#method--focusnextchildwithcharacter--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| char | `string` | The character to look for. | `undefined` |

Commit message:

feat(options): add transitionDuration option to allow for closing animations
See #319

docs/api/menubar.md, after:

# Menubar

An accessible menubar navigation in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `Menubar`.

```js
new Menubar({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  transitionDuration,
  openDuration,
  closeDuration,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  prefix,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `"show"` |
| options.closeClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `"hide"` |
| options.transitionClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `"transitioning"` |
| options.transitionDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition between "open" and "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.openDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "closed" to "open" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.closeDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "open" to "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `Menubar`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.prefix | `string`, `null` | The prefix for the CSS custom properties. | `"am-"` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
Menubar.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click](#method--handleclick), [hover (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

This will also set the menu's `role` to "menubar" in the DOM.

If the menu is a root menu the first menu item's `tabIndex` will be set to 0 in the DOM.

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error, this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
Menubar._MenuType; // Default: `Menubar`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
Menubar._MenuItemType; // Default: `MenubarItem`.
```

#### Type {#property--menuitemtype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
Menubar._MenuToggleType; // Default: `MenubarToggle`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutoggletype--type}

`Class`

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the Menubar class.

### _handleClick <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handleclick}

Handles click events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
Menubar._handleClick();
```

This method will do the following:

- Adds all event listeners listed in [BaseMenu's _handleClick method](./base-menu#method--handleclick).
- Adds a `pointerup` listener to the `document` so if the user clicks outside of the menu it will close if it is open.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Menubar._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:

- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight",
    "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", "End", "Space", "Enter", "Escape",
    and "A" through "Z".
  - Completely closes the menu and moves focus out if the "Tab" key is pressed.

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Menubar._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [Navigation Menubar Example](https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-wai-aria-practices-1.2-20191218/examples/menubar/menubar-1/menubar-1.html#kbd_label):

#### Menubar

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to first item in the submenu. |
| _Right Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item in the menubar.</li><li>If focus is on the last item, moves focus to the first item.</li></ul> |
| _Left Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the previous item in the menubar.</li><li>If focus is on the first item, moves focus to the last item.</li></ul> |
| _Down Arrow_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to first item in the submenu. |
| _Up Arrow_ | Opens submenu and moves focus to last item in the submenu. |
| _Home_ | Moves focus to first item in the menubar. |
| _End_ | Moves focus to last item in the menubar. |
| _Character_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to next item in the menubar having a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>If none of the items have a name starting with the typed character, focus does not move.</li></ul> |

#### Submenu

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | <ul><li>Activates menu item, causing the link to be activated.</li><li>NOTE: the links go to dummy pages; use the browser go-back function to return to this menubar example page.</li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | <ul><li>Closes submenu.</li><li>Moves focus to parent menubar item.</li></ul> |
| _Right Arrow_ | <ul><li>If focus is on an item with a submenu, opens the submenu and places focus on the first item.</li><li>If focus is on an item that does not have a submenu:<ul><li>Closes submenu.</li><li>Moves focus to next item in the menubar.</li><li>Opens submenu of newly focused menubar item, keeping focus on that parent menubar item.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Left Arrow_ | <ul><li>Closes submenu and moves focus to parent menu item.</li><li>If parent menu item is in the menubar, also:<ul><li>moves focus to previous item in the menubar.</li><li>Opens submenu of newly focused menubar item, keeping focus on that parent menubar item.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Down Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item in the submenu.</li><li>If focus is on the last item, moves focus to the first item.</li></ul> |
| _Up Arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to previous item in the submenu.</li><li>If focus is on the first item, moves focus to the last item.</li></ul> |
| Home | Moves focus to the first item in the submenu. |
| End | Moves focus to the last item in the submenu. |
| _Character_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next item having a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>If none of the items have a name starting with the typed character, focus does not move.</li></ul> |

### focusNextChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextchild}

Focus the menu's next child.

```js
Menubar.focusNextChild();
```

If the currently focussed child in the menu is the last child then this will focus the first child in the menu.

### focusPreviousChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuspreviouschild}

Focus the menu's previous child.

```js
Menubar.focusPreviousChild();
```

If the currently focussed child in the menu is the first child then this will focus the last child in the menu.

### focusNextChildWithCharacter <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextchildwithcharacter}

Focus the menu's next child starting with a specific letter.

```js
Menubar.focusNextChildWithCharacter(char);
```

#### Parameters {#method--focusnextchildwithcharacter--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| char | `string` | The character to look for. | `undefined` |
