docs/api/top-link-disclosure-menu.md, before:

# Top Link Disclosure Menu

An accessible disclosure menu with top-level links in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`.

```js
new TopLinkDisclosureMenu({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  submenuSubtoggleSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  optionalKeySupport,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also populate the optionalSupport property, the new submenuSubtoggle selector, and initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"button"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.submenuSubtoggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links below the top level. | `"a"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `"show"` |
| options.closeClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `"hide"` |
| options.transitionClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `"transitioning"` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.optionalKeySupport | `boolean` | A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, Home, and End) to the menu. | `false` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click](#method--handleclick), [hover](#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error,
this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenu}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`.
```

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenuItem}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuItemType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenuItem`.
```

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenuToggle}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuToggleType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenuToggle`.
```

### _currentChild <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--currentchild}

The index of the currently selected [menu item](./top-link-disclosure-menu-item) in the menu.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {number}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._currentChild; // Default: `-1`.
```

### _selectors <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--selectors}

The query selectors used by the menu to populate the dom.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {Object<string>}
 *
 * @property {string} menuItems         - The query selector for menu items.
 * @property {string} menuLinks         - The query selector for menu links.
 * @property {string} submenuItems      - The query selector for menu items containing submenus.
 * @property {string} submenuToggles    - The query selector for menu links that function as submenu toggles.
 * @property {string} submenus          - The query selector for for submenus.
 * @property {string} submenuSubtoggles - The query selector for menu links that function as submenu toggles below the top level.
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._selectors;
```

### _optionalSupport <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--optionalsupport}

A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, "Home", and "End") to the menu.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {boolean}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._optionalSupport; // Default: `false`.
```

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### optionalKeySupport {#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport}

A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, "Home", and "End") to the menu.

::: code-group

```js [getter]
/**
 * @type {boolean}
 *
 * @see _optionalSupport
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.optionalKeySupport;
```

```js [setter]
/**
 * @type {boolean}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.optionalKeySupport = true;
```

:::

This functions differently for root vs. submenus. Submenus will always inherit their root menu's optionalKeySupport.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### _createChildElements <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--createchildelements}

Creates and initializes all menu items and submenus.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._createChildElements();
```

This method differs from [BaseMenu's _createChildElements method](./base-menu#method--createchildelements) because of the way toggles are handled in submenus. On the top level submenu toggles are their own element, separate from the link, while in submenus they are the link itself.

### _validate <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--validate}

Validates all aspects of the menu to ensure proper functionality.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @returns {boolean} - The result of the validation.
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._validate();
```

The validation method will call [BaseMenu's validation method](./base-menu#method--validate) as well as validate the optionalKeySupport property and the submenuSubtoggleSelector value.

### _handleClick <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handleclick}

Handles click events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleClick();
```

This method will do the following:

- Adds all event listeners listed in [BaseMenu's _handleClick method](./base-menu#method--handleclick).
- Adds a `pointerup` listener to the `document` so if the user clicks outside of the menu it will close if it is open.

### _handleHover <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlehover}

Handles hover events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleHover();
```

This method is essentially the same as [BaseMenu's _handleHover method](./base-menu#method--handlehover). The only difference is that hovering both the top-level link _and_ the top-level menu toggle for a menu item will trigger the set hover effects.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:
- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "Space", "Enter", and "Escape".
  - _If_ [optional keyboard support](#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport) is enabled, blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight", "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", and "End".

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [WAI ARIA Pracitices Example Disclosure for Navigation Menus](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/disclosure/disclosure-navigation.html#kbd_label):

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Tab_ or _Shift + Tab_ | Move keyboard focus among top-level buttons, and if a dropdown is open, into and through links in the dropdown. |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | <ul><li>If focus is on a disclosure button, activates the button, which toggles the visibility of the dropdown.</li><li>If focus is on a link:<ul><li>If any link has aria-current set, removes it.</li><li>Sets aria-current="page" on the focused link.</li><li>Activates the focused link.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | If a dropdown is open, closes it and sets focus on the button that controls that dropdown. |
| _Down Arrow_ or _Right Arrow_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button and its dropdown is collapsed, and it is not the last button, moves focus to the next button.</li><li>if focus is on a button and its dropdown is expanded, moves focus to the first link in the dropdown.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the last link, moves focus to the next link.</li></ul> |
| _Up Arrow_ or _Left Arrow_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the first button, moves focus to the previous button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the first link, moves focus to the previous link.</li></ul> |
| _Home_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the first button, moves focus to the first button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the first link, moves focus to the first link.</li></ul> |
| _End_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the last button, moves focus to the last button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the last link, moves focus to the last link.</li></ul> |

The optional keybindings are controlled by the menu's [optionalKeySupport](#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport) value.

Commit message:

feat(options): add transitionDuration option to allow for closing animations
See #319

docs/api/top-link-disclosure-menu.md, after:

# Top Link Disclosure Menu

An accessible disclosure menu with top-level links in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`.

```js
new TopLinkDisclosureMenu({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  submenuSubtoggleSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  transitionDuration,
  openDuration,
  closeDuration,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  optionalKeySupport,
  prefix,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also populate the optionalSupport property, the new submenuSubtoggle selector, and initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"button"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.submenuSubtoggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links below the top level. | `"a"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `"show"` |
| options.closeClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `"hide"` |
| options.transitionClass | `(string`, `string[])`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `"transitioning"` |
| options.transitionDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition between "open" and "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.openDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "closed" to "open" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.closeDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "open" to "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.optionalKeySupport | `boolean` | A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, Home, and End) to the menu. | `false` |
| options.prefix | `string`, `null` | The prefix for the CSS custom properties. | `"am-"` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click](#method--handleclick), [hover](#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error,
this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenu}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenu`.
```

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenuItem}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuItemType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenuItem`.
```

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {typeof TopLinkDisclosureMenuToggle}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._MenuToggleType; // Default: `TopLinkDisclosureMenuToggle`.
```

### _currentChild <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--currentchild}

The index of the currently selected [menu item](./top-link-disclosure-menu-item) in the menu.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {number}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._currentChild; // Default: `-1`.
```

### _selectors <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--selectors}

The query selectors used by the menu to populate the dom.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {Object<string>}
 *
 * @property {string} menuItems         - The query selector for menu items.
 * @property {string} menuLinks         - The query selector for menu links.
 * @property {string} submenuItems      - The query selector for menu items containing submenus.
 * @property {string} submenuToggles    - The query selector for menu links that function as submenu toggles.
 * @property {string} submenus          - The query selector for for submenus.
 * @property {string} submenuSubtoggles - The query selector for menu links that function as submenu toggles below the top level.
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._selectors;
```

### _optionalSupport <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--optionalsupport}

A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, "Home", and "End") to the menu.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @type {boolean}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._optionalSupport; // Default: `false`.
```

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### optionalKeySupport {#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport}

A flag to add optional keyboard support (Arrow keys, "Home", and "End") to the menu.

::: code-group

```js [getter]
/**
 * @type {boolean}
 *
 * @see _optionalSupport
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.optionalKeySupport;
```

```js [setter]
/**
 * @type {boolean}
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu.optionalKeySupport = true;
```

:::

This functions differently for root vs. submenus. Submenus will always inherit their root menu's optionalKeySupport.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the TopLinkDisclosureMenu class.

### _createChildElements <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--createchildelements}

Creates and initializes all menu items and submenus.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._createChildElements();
```

This method differs from [BaseMenu's _createChildElements method](./base-menu#method--createchildelements) because of the way toggles are handled in submenus. On the top level submenu toggles are their own element, separate from the link, while in submenus they are the link itself.

### _validate <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--validate}

Validates all aspects of the menu to ensure proper functionality.

```js
/**
 * @protected
 *
 * @returns {boolean} - The result of the validation.
 */
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._validate();
```

The validation method will call [BaseMenu's validation method](./base-menu#method--validate) as well as validate the optionalKeySupport property and the submenuSubtoggleSelector value.

### _handleClick <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handleclick}

Handles click events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleClick();
```

This method will do the following:

- Adds all event listeners listed in [BaseMenu's _handleClick method](./base-menu#method--handleclick).
- Adds a `pointerup` listener to the `document` so if the user clicks outside of the menu it will close if it is open.

### _handleHover <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlehover}

Handles hover events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleHover();
```

This method is essentially the same as [BaseMenu's _handleHover method](./base-menu#method--handlehover). The only difference is that hovering both the top-level link _and_ the top-level menu toggle for a menu item will trigger the set hover effects.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:
- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "Space", "Enter", and "Escape".
  - _If_ [optional keyboard support](#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport) is enabled, blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight", "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", and "End".

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
TopLinkDisclosureMenu._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [WAI ARIA Pracitices Example Disclosure for Navigation Menus](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/disclosure/disclosure-navigation.html#kbd_label):

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Tab_ or _Shift + Tab_ | Move keyboard focus among top-level buttons, and if a dropdown is open, into and through links in the dropdown. |
| _Space_ or _Enter_ | <ul><li>If focus is on a disclosure button, activates the button, which toggles the visibility of the dropdown.</li><li>If focus is on a link:<ul><li>If any link has aria-current set, removes it.</li><li>Sets aria-current="page" on the focused link.</li><li>Activates the focused link.</li></ul></li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | If a dropdown is open, closes it and sets focus on the button that controls that dropdown. |
| _Down Arrow_ or _Right Arrow_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button and its dropdown is collapsed, and it is not the last button, moves focus to the next button.</li><li>if focus is on a button and its dropdown is expanded, moves focus to the first link in the dropdown.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the last link, moves focus to the next link.</li></ul> |
| _Up Arrow_ or _Left Arrow_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the first button, moves focus to the previous button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the first link, moves focus to the previous link.</li></ul> |
| _Home_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the first button, moves focus to the first button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the first link, moves focus to the first link.</li></ul> |
| _End_ (Optional}) | <ul><li>If focus is on a button, and it is not the last button, moves focus to the last button.</li><li>If focus is on a link, and it is not the last link, moves focus to the last link.</li></ul> |

The optional keybindings are controlled by the menu's [optionalKeySupport](#getter-setter--optionalkeysupport) value.
