docs/api/treeview.md, before:

# Treeview

An accessible treeview navigation in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `Treeview`.

```js
new Treeview({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `null` |
| options.closeClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `null` |
| options.transitionClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `null` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `Treeview`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
Treeview.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handleclick), [hover (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

If the menu is a root menu it's `role` will be set to "tree" and the first
menu item's `tabIndex` will be set to 0 in the DOM.

If the menu is _not_ a root menu it's `role` will be set to "group".

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error,
this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
Treeview._MenuType; // Default: `Treeview`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
Treeview._MenuItemType; // Default: `TreeviewItem`.
```

#### Type {#property--menuitemtype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
Treeview._MenuToggleType; // Default: `TreeviewToggle`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutoggletype--type}

`Class`

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

### _handleHover <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlehover}

Handles hover events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
BaseMenu._handleHover();
```

Adds `pointerenter` listeners to all menu items and `pointerleave` listeners to all submenu items which function differently depending on the menu's [hover type](#property--hovertype).

Before executing anything, the event is checked to make sure the event wasn't triggered by a pen or touch.

This method will add the following behaviour:

#### Hover Type "on" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-on}

- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item the menu's [current child](#property--currentchild) value will change to that menu item.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item the [preview method](./base-menu-toggle#method--preview) for the submenu item's toggle will be called.
- When a `pointerleave` event triggers on the menu itself the [closeChildren method](./base-menu#method--closechildren) will be called after a delay set by the menu's hover delay.

#### Hover Type "dynamic" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-dynamic}

- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item the menu's current child value will change to that menu item.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item, and the menu's [focus state](#property--focusstate) is not "none", the menu item will be focused.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item, and a submenu is already open, the preview method for the submenu item's toggle will be called.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a non-submenu item, and a submenu is already open, the closeChildren method for the menu will be called.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item, and no submenu is open, no submenu-specific methods will be called.

#### Hover Type "off" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-off}

All `pointerenter` and `pointerleave` events are ignored.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Treeview._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:

- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight",
    "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", "End", "Space", "Enter", "Escape",
    "*" (asterisk), and "A" through "Z".
  - Moves focus out if the "Tab" key is pressed.

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Treeview._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [Navigation Treeview Example Using Computed Properties](https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-wai-aria-practices-1.2-20191218/examples/treeview/treeview-2/treeview-2a.html#kbd_label)):

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Enter_ or _Space_ | Performs the default action (e.g. onclick event) for the focused node. |
| _Down arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next node that is focusable without opening or closing a node.</li><li>If focus is on the last node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Up arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the previous node that is focusable without opening or closing a node.</li><li>If focus is on the first node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Right arrow_ | <ul><li>When focus is on a closed node, opens the node; focus does not move.</li><li>When focus is on a open node, moves focus to the first child node.</li><li>When focus is on an end node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Left arrow_ | <ul><li>When focus is on an open node, closes the node.</li><li>When focus is on a child node that is also either an end node or a closed node, moves focus to its parent node.</li><li>When focus is on a root node that is also either an end node or a closed node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Home_ | Moves focus to first node without opening or closing a node. |
| _End_ | Moves focus to the last node that can be focused without expanding any nodes that are closed. |
| _a-z_, _A-Z_ | <ul><li>Focus moves to the next node with a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>Search wraps to first node if a matching name is not found among the nodes that follow the focused node.</li><li>Search ignores nodes that are descendants of closed nodes.</li></ul> |
| _* (asterisk)_ | <ul><li>Expands all closed sibling nodes that are at the same level as the focused node.</li><li>Focus does not move.</li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | If the root menu is collapsible, collapses the menu and focuses the menu's controlling element. |

### focusLastNode <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuslastnode}

Focus the menu's last node of the entire expanded menu.

```js
Treeview.focusLastNode();
```

This includes all _open_ child menu items.

### openChildren <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--openchildren}

Open all submenu children.

```js
Treeview.openChildren();
```

### focusNextNodeWithCharacter <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextnodewithcharacter}

Focus the menu's next node starting with a specific letter.

```js
Treeview.focusNextNodeWithCharacter(char);
```

This includes all _open_ child menu items.

Wraps to the first node if no match is found after the current node.

#### Parameters {#method--focusnextnodewithcharacter--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| char | `string` | The character to look for. | `undefined` |

### focusParentsNextChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusparentsnextchild}

Focus the parent menu's next child.

```js
Treeview.focusParentsNextChild();
```

This will cascade up through to the root menu.

### focusChildsLastNode <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuschildslastnode}

Focus the last child of the current child's submenu.

```js
Treeview.focusChildsLastNode();
```

This will cascade down through to the last open menu.

Commit message:

feat(options): add transitionDuration option to allow for closing animations
See #319

docs/api/treeview.md, after:

# Treeview

An accessible treeview navigation in the DOM.

::: info Note

This is a subclass of [BaseMenu](./base-menu).

:::

## Constructor

Constructs a new `Treeview`.

```js
new Treeview({
  menuElement,
  menuItemSelector,
  menuLinkSelector,
  submenuItemSelector,
  submenuToggleSelector,
  submenuSelector,
  controllerElement,
  containerElement,
  openClass,
  closeClass,
  transitionClass,
  transitionDuration,
  openDuration,
  closeDuration,
  isTopLevel,
  parentMenu,
  hoverType,
  hoverDelay,
  enterDelay,
  leaveDelay,
  prefix,
  initialize,
});
```

The constructor will call [BaseMenu's constructor](./base-menu#constructor) with the provided options. It will also initialize the menu if the initialize flag is set to `true`.

### Parameters {#constructor--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| options | `object` | The options for generating the menu. | `undefined` |
| options.menuElement | `HTMLElement` | The menu element in the DOM. | `undefined` |
| options.menuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items. | `"li"` |
| options.menuLinkSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuItemSelector | `string` | The query selector string for menu items containing submenus. | `li:has(ul)` |
| options.submenuToggleSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenu toggle buttons/links. | `"a"` |
| options.submenuSelector | `string` | The query selector string for submenus. | `"ul"` |
| options.controllerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element controlling the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.containerElement | `HTMLElement`, `null` | The element containing the menu in the DOM. | `null` |
| options.openClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "open". | `null` |
| options.closeClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is "closed". | `null` |
| options.transitionClass | `string`, `string[]`, `null` | The class to apply when a menu is transitioning between "open" and "closed" states. | `null` |
| options.transitionDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition between "open" and "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.openDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "closed" to "open" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.closeDuration | `number` | The duration of the transition from "open" to "closed" states (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.isTopLevel | `boolean` | A flag to mark the root menu. | `true` |
| options.parentMenu | `Treeview`, `null` | The parent menu to this menu. | `null` |
| options.hoverType | `string` | The type of hoverability a menu has. | `"off"` |
| options.hoverDelay | `number` | The delay for opening and closing menus if the menu is hoverable (in miliseconds). | `250` |
| options.enterDelay | `number` | The delay for opening a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.leaveDelay | `number` | The delay for closing a menu if the menu is focusable (in miliseconds). | `-1` |
| options.prefix | `string`, `null` | The prefix for the CSS custom properties. | `"am-"` |
| options.initialize | `boolean` | A flag to initialize the menu immediately upon creation. | `true` |

## Initialize

Initializes the menu.

```js
Treeview.initialize();
```

Initialize will call [BaseMenu's initialize method](./base-menu#initialize) as well as set up [focus (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlefocus), [click (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handleclick), [hover (inherited)](./base-menu#method--handlehover), [keydown](#method--handlekeydown), and [keyup](#method--handlekeyup) events for the menu.

If the menu is a root menu it's `role` will be set to "tree" and the first
menu item's `tabIndex` will be set to 0 in the DOM.

If the menu is _not_ a root menu it's `role` will be set to "group".

If the BaseMenu's initialize method throws an error,
this will catch it and log it to the console.

## Properties

Properties are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#properties) class. The following properties are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

### _MenuType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutype}

The class to use when generating submenus.

```js
Treeview._MenuType; // Default: `Treeview`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuItemType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menuitemtype}

The class to use when generating menu items.

```js
Treeview._MenuItemType; // Default: `TreeviewItem`.
```

#### Type {#property--menuitemtype--type}

`Class`

### _MenuToggleType <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#property--menutoggletype}

The class to use when generating menu toggles.

```js
Treeview._MenuToggleType; // Default: `TreeviewToggle`.
```

#### Type {#property--menutoggletype--type}

`Class`

## Getters and Setters

Getters and setters are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#getters-and-setters) class. The following getters and setters are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

## Methods

Methods are inherited from the [BaseMenu](./base-menu#methods) class. The following methods are unique to or overwritten in the Treeview class.

### _handleHover <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlehover}

Handles hover events throughout the menu for proper use.

```js
BaseMenu._handleHover();
```

Adds `pointerenter` listeners to all menu items and `pointerleave` listeners to all submenu items which function differently depending on the menu's [hover type](#property--hovertype).

Before executing anything, the event is checked to make sure the event wasn't triggered by a pen or touch.

This method will add the following behaviour:

#### Hover Type "on" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-on}

- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item the menu's [current child](#property--currentchild) value will change to that menu item.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item the [preview method](./base-menu-toggle#method--preview) for the submenu item's toggle will be called.
- When a `pointerleave` event triggers on the menu itself the [closeChildren method](./base-menu#method--closechildren) will be called after a delay set by the menu's hover delay.

#### Hover Type "dynamic" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-dynamic}

- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item the menu's current child value will change to that menu item.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on any menu item, and the menu's [focus state](#property--focusstate) is not "none", the menu item will be focused.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item, and a submenu is already open, the preview method for the submenu item's toggle will be called.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a non-submenu item, and a submenu is already open, the closeChildren method for the menu will be called.
- When a `pointerenter` event triggers on a submenu item, and no submenu is open, no submenu-specific methods will be called.

#### Hover Type "off" {#method--handlefover--hovertype-off}

All `pointerenter` and `pointerleave` events are ignored.

### _handleKeydown <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeydown}

Handles keydown events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Treeview._handleKeydown();
```

This method exists to assist the [_handleKeyup method](#method--handlekeyup).

This method will do the following:

- Adds all `keydown` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeydown method](./base-menu#method--handlekeydown).
- Adds a `keydown` listener to the menu/all submenus.
  - Blocks propagation on the following keys: "ArrowUp", "ArrowRight",
    "ArrowDown", "ArrowLeft", "Home", "End", "Space", "Enter", "Escape",
    "*" (asterisk), and "A" through "Z".
  - Moves focus out if the "Tab" key is pressed.

### _handleKeyup <badge type="warning" text="protected" /> {#method--handlekeyup}

Handles keyup events throughout the menu for proper menu use.

```js
Treeview._handleKeyup();
```

Adds all `keyup` listeners from [BaseMenu's _handleKeyup method](./base-menu#method--handlekeyup).

Adds the following keybindings (explanations are taken from the [Navigation Treeview Example Using Computed Properties](https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/WD-wai-aria-practices-1.2-20191218/examples/treeview/treeview-2/treeview-2a.html#kbd_label)):

| Key | Function |
| --- | --- |
| _Enter_ or _Space_ | Performs the default action (e.g. onclick event) for the focused node. |
| _Down arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the next node that is focusable without opening or closing a node.</li><li>If focus is on the last node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Up arrow_ | <ul><li>Moves focus to the previous node that is focusable without opening or closing a node.</li><li>If focus is on the first node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Right arrow_ | <ul><li>When focus is on a closed node, opens the node; focus does not move.</li><li>When focus is on a open node, moves focus to the first child node.</li><li>When focus is on an end node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Left arrow_ | <ul><li>When focus is on an open node, closes the node.</li><li>When focus is on a child node that is also either an end node or a closed node, moves focus to its parent node.</li><li>When focus is on a root node that is also either an end node or a closed node, does nothing.</li></ul> |
| _Home_ | Moves focus to first node without opening or closing a node. |
| _End_ | Moves focus to the last node that can be focused without expanding any nodes that are closed. |
| _a-z_, _A-Z_ | <ul><li>Focus moves to the next node with a name that starts with the typed character.</li><li>Search wraps to first node if a matching name is not found among the nodes that follow the focused node.</li><li>Search ignores nodes that are descendants of closed nodes.</li></ul> |
| _* (asterisk)_ | <ul><li>Expands all closed sibling nodes that are at the same level as the focused node.</li><li>Focus does not move.</li></ul> |
| _Escape_ | If the root menu is collapsible, collapses the menu and focuses the menu's controlling element. |

### focusLastNode <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuslastnode}

Focus the menu's last node of the entire expanded menu.

```js
Treeview.focusLastNode();
```

This includes all _open_ child menu items.

### openChildren <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--openchildren}

Open all submenu children.

```js
Treeview.openChildren();
```

### focusNextNodeWithCharacter <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusnextnodewithcharacter}

Focus the menu's next node starting with a specific letter.

```js
Treeview.focusNextNodeWithCharacter(char);
```

This includes all _open_ child menu items.

Wraps to the first node if no match is found after the current node.

#### Parameters {#method--focusnextnodewithcharacter--parameters}

| Name | Type | Description | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| char | `string` | The character to look for. | `undefined` |

### focusParentsNextChild <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focusparentsnextchild}

Focus the parent menu's next child.

```js
Treeview.focusParentsNextChild();
```

This will cascade up through to the root menu.

### focusChildsLastNode <badge type="tip" text="public" /> {#method--focuschildslastnode}

Focus the last child of the current child's submenu.

```js
Treeview.focusChildsLastNode();
```

This will cascade down through to the last open menu.
